The Old Testament
GENESIS
Genesis 1

1.	In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. 
2	And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness [was] upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 
3.	And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. 
4	And God saw the light, that [it was] good: and God divided the light from the darkness. 
5	And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day. 
6.	And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. 
7	And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which [were] under the firmament from the waters which [were] above the firmament: and it was so. 
8	And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day. 
9.	And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry [land] appear: and it was so. 
10	And God called the dry [land] Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that [it was] good. 
11	And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, [and] the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed [is] in itself, upon the earth: and it was so. 
12	And the earth brought forth grass, [and] herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed [was] in itself, after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good. 
13	And the evening and the morning were the third day. 
14.	And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: 
15	And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so. 
16	And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: [he made] the stars also. 
17	And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, 
18	And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that [it was] good. 
19	And the evening and the morning were the fourth day. 
20.	And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl [that] may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven. 
21	And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good. 
22	And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth. 
23	And the evening and the morning were the fifth day. 
24.	And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so. 
25	And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good. 
26.	And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 
27	So God created man in his [own] image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. 
28	And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. 
29.	And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which [is] upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which [is] the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat. 
30	And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein [there is] life, [I have given] every green herb for meat: and it was so. 
31.	And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, [it was] very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. 

Genesis 2

1.	Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. 
2	And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. 
3	And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. 
4.	These [are] the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens, 
5	And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and [there was] not a man to till the ground. 
6	But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. 
7	And the LORD God formed man [of] the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. 
8.	And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed. 
9	And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. 
10	And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads. 
11	The name of the first [is] Pison: that [is] it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where [there is] gold; 
12	And the gold of that land [is] good: there [is] bdellium and the onyx stone. 
13	And the name of the second river [is] Gihon: the same [is] it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia. 
Genesis 35
1.	And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother. 
2	Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that [were] with him, Put away the strange gods that [are] among you, and be clean, and change your garments: 
3	And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went. 
4	And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which [were] in their hand, and [all their] earrings which [were] in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which [was] by Shechem. 
5	And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that [were] round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. 
6.	So Jacob came to Luz, which [is] in the land of Canaan, that [is], Bethel, he and all the people that [were] with him. 
7	And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother. 
8	But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth. 
9	And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him. 
10	And God said unto him, Thy name [is] Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel. 
11	And God said unto him, I [am] God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins; 
12	And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. 
13	And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him. 
14	And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, [even] a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. 
15	And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel. 
16.	And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour. 
17	And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also. 
18	And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin. 
13	And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. 
14	And the LORD said unto Moses, Write this [for] a memorial in a book, and rehearse [it] in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. 
15	And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it Jehovahnissi: 
16	For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn [that] the LORD [will have] war with Amalek from generation to generation. 
Exodus 18
1.	When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, [and] that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt; 
2	Then Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back, 
3	And her two sons; of which the name of the one [was] Gershom; for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land: 
4	And the name of the other [was] Eliezer; for the God of my father, [said he, was] mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh: 
5	And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: 
6	And he said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy wife, and her two sons with her. 
7.	And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of [their] welfare; and they came into the tent. 
8	And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, [and] all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and [how] the LORD delivered them. 
9	And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians. 
7	And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever [else] cometh into the house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he cometh in, and when he goeth out. 
8	So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go [out] on the sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses. 
9	Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that [had been] king David's, which [were] in the house of God. 
10	And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about. 
11	Then they brought out the king's son, and put upon him the crown, and [gave him] the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king. 
12.	Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD: 
13	And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason. 
14	Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD. 
15	So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering of the horse gate by the king's house, they slew her there. 
16	And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD'S people. 
17	Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. 
18	Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as [it is] written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, [as it was ordained] by David. 
19	And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD, that none [which was] unclean in any thing should enter in. 
20	And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the high gate into the king's house, and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom. 
21	And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet, after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword. 
2 Chronicles 24
1.	Joash [was] seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also [was] Zibiah of Beersheba. 
2	And Joash did [that which was] right in the sight of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest. 
3	And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and daughters. 
4	And it came to pass after this, [that] Joash was minded to repair the house of the LORD. 
5	And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened [it] not. 
6	And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him, Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and out of Jerusalem the collection, [according to the commandment] of Moses the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for the tabernacle of witness? 
7	For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated things of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim. 
8	And at the king's commandment they made a chest, and set it without at the gate of the house of the LORD. 
9	And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to bring in to the LORD the collection [that] Moses the servant of God [laid] upon Israel in the wilderness. 
10	And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in, and cast into the chest, until they had made an end. 
11	Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought unto the king's office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that [there was] much money, the king's scribe and the high priest's officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in abundance. 
12	And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to repair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass to mend the house of the LORD. 
21	Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo, it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller to bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword. 
22	Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I [am] against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. 
23	And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. 
24	And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded [man]. 
25	But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I [am] the LORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt. 
26	And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among the countries; and they shall know that I [am] the LORD. 
Ezekiel 31
1.	And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third [month], in the first [day] of the month, [that] the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
2	Son of man, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude; Whom art thou like in thy greatness? 
3	Behold, the Assyrian [was] a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with a shadowing shroud, and of an high stature; and his top was among the thick boughs. 
4	The waters made him great, the deep set him up on high with her rivers running round about his plants, and sent out her little rivers unto all the trees of the field. 
5	Therefore his height was exalted above all the trees of the field, and his boughs were multiplied, and his branches became long because of the multitude of waters, when he shot forth. 
6	All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his boughs, and under his branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young, and under his shadow dwelt all great nations. 
7	Thus was he fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches: for his root was by great waters. 
8	The cedars in the garden of God could not hide him: the fir trees were not like his boughs, and the chesnut trees were not like his branches; nor any tree in the garden of God was like unto him in his beauty. 
9	I have made him fair by the multitude of his branches: so that all the trees of Eden, that [were] in the garden of God, envied him. 
10.	Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast lifted up thyself in height, and he hath shot up his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height; 
11	I have therefore delivered him into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen; he shall surely deal with him: I have driven him out for his wickedness. 
12	And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off, and have left him: upon the mountains and in all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the rivers of the land; and all the people of the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left him. 
13	Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven remain, and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches: 
14	To the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for their height, neither shoot up their top among the thick boughs, neither their trees stand up in their height, all that drink water: for they are all delivered unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with them that go down to the pit. 
15	Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when he went down to the grave I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I restrained the floods thereof, and the great waters were stayed: and I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him. 
16	I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him down to hell with them that descend into the pit: and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth. 
17	They also went down into hell with him unto [them that be] slain with the sword; and [they that were] his arm, [that] dwelt under his shadow in the midst of the heathen. 
18	To whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? yet shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Eden unto the nether parts of the earth: thou shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with [them that be] slain by the sword. This [is] Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the Lord GOD. 
Ezekiel 32
1.	And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the first [day] of the month, [that] the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
2	Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the nations, and thou [art] as a whale in the seas: and thou camest forth with thy rivers, and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and fouledst their rivers. 
3	Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will therefore spread out my net over thee with a company of many people; and they shall bring thee up in my net. 
4	Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth upon the open field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain upon thee, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee. 
5	And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys with thy height. 
6	I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest, [even] to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of thee. 
7	And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light. 
8	All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord GOD. 
9	I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bring thy destruction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast not known. 
